so here are the new parts
or should I say rebuilt parts you could
actually probably purchase the same one
these are right and left notice the only
difference is let's see if I can zoom in
here is the location of the bleeder
screw is opposite but besides that
they're identical so if you bought two
of the same no big deal it wouldn't
matter now I changed my brake fluid so
this vehicle is a 96 and it's now 2013
and the calipers are now just sticking
at 230,000 miles so I probably gave
these a little bit of life by changing
the fluid maybe maybe not they can stick
at any time they can never stick what
happened is when we got out of the car
we noticed a bunch of smoke bellowing
out of the wheel smelled like burnt
rubber the wheel was very hot you could
put your hand near the tire and feel
heat coming out I measured the
temperature compared it to the other
three and this one was much hotter it
was 50 degrees hotter so and that was
after it cooled off for a little bit so
I knew the caliper was stuck so we're
going to go ahead and replace both just
it's just smarter and easier to just
take care of them both even though the
other side is fine for now it may not be
in a week it may be less forever but
we'll just go ahead and swap them both
out so this will involve removing three
bolts we have the brake hose bolt which
is 9/16 and we have two half-inch bolts
that hold the caliper on to
the hub so what I'm going to do is while
it's mounted I'm going to break the
brake hose nut loose and that'll
probably drip a little bit I'm not too
worried about it and then we'll go from
there
so we'll break the nut loose that holds
the hose on that was surprisingly easy
since that was so easy to break that
loose just leave it loose and I'll take
off the two mounting bolts and remove
the caliper so I have my replacement
caliper I'm going to remove the bolt
that holds the brake hose on and
transfer the hose and the bolt to the
new one okay there are copper washers on
the bolt so I'll replace them so as you
can see the the fluid is not pouring out
of the line so I just have a washer here
I'll replace that with a new one so I
place the bolt through the hose and my
washer in place and then I'll reset it
just get it started and I'll screw it
down in place so I went ahead and
mounted the caliper without the pads on
and tightened up the bolt for the brake
hose and now I'm going to take it back
off again because I have another project
I want to do so for less than ten
dollars purchased a parking brake
hardware kit that does both sides and
what I'm going to do
and going to replace all of the parts
and pieces on the parking brake here all
the springs and the clips go ahead and
do that while I have it apart and so for
ten bucks you know I have new non rusty
parts don't have to worry about it
breaking or rusting apart for a while so
we'll go ahead and mount the new pads on
remember don't be cheap use new pads and
not that expensive just on this car
we'll go ahead and mount the caliper on
to the disk here you set the top you
pull the adjustment slides out of the
way and just set it in place
install the two caliper mounting bolts
and then we'll bleed the system and
we're done all right your choices for
bleeding the brakes are you can
pressurize the reservoir and push the
fluid through you can get a vacuum pump
and pull the fluid through or you can do
it the old-fashioned way where you have
an assistant press the pedal